So welcome back
and welcome to Decoupling your Architecture! What we're going to solve in this video
is the problem that our reticle is not taking the value of the Enum. We're going to look in
detail at this ordering that things happen in. And then, we're going to find a
way over in our TankPlayerController, to find the AimingComponent
differently, and we're going to have some temporary blueprint. Than, later we'll end up with C++,
that solved the problem. And hopefully you'll understand why we have this rays condition and what we can do about it.
So before I get into the meat of this, obviously in the last video
I did a boo boo, and that' boo boo was that I did not log out the
C++ BeginPlay() for the Tank.
So I asked you to do these logs and somehow I just glossed over this. So let me go
ahead and do that now. I'm just going to copy the line from the contstructor
and just say DONKEY. Remember our keyword, our safe word, if you like. [Laughs] Tank
C++ Begin Play. Now let's go ahead
and compile that code, just having added in these two lines to the Begin
Play() of the tank. And we can analyze a little bit more carefully what happens,
from the main menu, just as a quick recap, and then,
we will work out why we're not getting the right color from the reticle and what the architectural
issues are and learn lots of cool stuff. So if we start the game here we get
tons of stuff, including these errors which we'll deal with in a minute or will go away in a minute.
But DONKEY, if I search for that, you can see that the BP_38,
the AI tank's C++ constructor runs, then the Blueprint
Constructor for that tank. So it''s not that all the C++ Constructors happen first,
it builds object by object, it's a depth first search.
Then, we go ahead and get the player's Constructor and the player's,
let's see, Blueprint Constructor. Then, we move into the BeginPlay() regime,
in the same way. So let's take a look at this diagrammatically. What we have is
Constructors running C++ for a given object, then the blueprint for that
object, then we repeat, we go around this circle until all the constructors are done. Then,
we move into the era of BeginPlay, whereby the C++ Constructor for a given
object runs, then the blueprint, and then, we repeat. But that does raise
the question of how do all the objects work in the grand scheme. OK, well that's an eye-full but let's
just focus on the left-hand side for a moment. What we do know, and you can find
out for yourself if you do some extra logging, is that the AimingComponent will
construct after the Tank, because the AimingComponent's a component of the Tank.
But what we don't know is when the TankAimingComponent pair is going to construct,
compared to other things such as the UI Widget and the PlayerController. So because
we don't know what all of these are going to build in, we should not care what order they're going to build in, and we
should architect our code so that it doesn't matter. We just know that all of these are going to
get constructed at some point. It's going to go around this loop, then this loop, then this loop, then this
loop maybe. Or maybe the UI Widget, then the Tank, then the AimingComponent, then the Player
Controller? All we know is that these two, the Tank and AimingComponent will happen together.
Then, we move into BeginPlay() and we've got exactly the same argument. Now before we look at the
BeginPlay(), let's remind ourselves what's going wrong here, at the moment. One of the things we've got
going wrong is our reticle is red, our crosshair is red,
even though we set Aiming
as the default Enum here. So what it's defaulting to is Enum value
0, which happens to be red, and it's ignoring the fact that, in the
TankAimingComponent's header file,
we initialized the Firing State Enum to Aiming.
That's not happening, and the reason it's not happening is this TODO
here checked that this BP Aiming Component Reference is set. I bet if we check
that, which we can do super quickly by dragging a print node in between here
and changing this Firing State to a string... Ah not even
that, let's change the Component Reference to a string. You don't need to do this, by the way, I'm just
debugging here. And pop that into the Print statement. What this is going to do is that
every time Get Aim Point Color and Opacity is interrogated, it's going to print out to the screen
the value of that pointer and it's none. So what's happening,
I'm going to undo all this stuff, is that when the
Player UI Blueprint code
reads from this BP Aiming Component Reference variable, it's not
set, and it's not set because the TankPlayerController has done this stuff
before the tank even had an Aiming Component. In fact,
we don't even set the Aiming Component in the tank anywhere yet. Remember we
used to add the AimingComponent as a default sub-object on the constructor.
We just protected a pointer but there's nowhere that we set it. But where would we
set it, that's the question? If we try and
we can't set the AimingComponent pointer on the tank,
inside the .cpp constructor up here
because the AimingComponent doesn't exist yet. We know that it's not even
existent yet, so that's not going to be a good place. We don't want to be messing around doing it
in Blueprint, that seems messy to me, so the next place that we could to be doing it
is on the Tank's C++ BeginPlay(), which is here
up at the top here. The problem with doing it there is we don't know that this
is going to run before the PlayerController, and indeed if we do do it here, it
may not run before the PlayerController. We may get the PlayerController BeginPlays
and then the Tank, which means that when the PlayerController ran
and said, hey I need an
AimingComponent we can't guarantee it's going to get it. So this architecture,
as we have it stinks, because of these race conditions, as we call them.
So now that we've identified that, let's start looking for a solution to that problem.
Let's go straight into the TankPlayerController blueprint! This is the first time we've rolled our sleeves
up and actually do anything. And let's think of a different way of doing it. How about if rather
than asking the Controlled Tank what it's Tank Aiming Component is,
how about if we don't do that. How about if we say to the Controlled Tank
"find component", or let's just search for the word
component. Get Components by Class is the closest
thing we seem to have here in Blueprint. So we say to the tank, OK go get
all of your components by class. Now this is in the BeginPlay() of the
blueprint right, so we're on the right-hand side here over here. So the AimingComponent
will have added to the Tank by now, because that happened on construction.
So go find your components by class! Now this is messy and we're going to move this to
C++ later, but for now, let's just do it here in blueprint. If you
take that array and go to Utilities/ Array and then
Get, it'll automatically get item 0, and it's item 0 of that array
that we can use to set the Blueprint Component Reference.
Now the reason that's not working is because we don't have a type yet. You have to select the
Component Class here. So you take the Controlled Tank,
you find all components of class Tank Aiming Component, we
assume there is only one for now, which we don't have any
reason for there to be more than one. So we drag from the GET node back into the
BP Aiming Component. We should get a tick this time. If you don't, for any reason, just delete this node, the Get
Component by Class node and try again, because sometimes it gets stuck with the idea that there's no
class. So what we're doing here is we're saying to the tank, OK let's go find the
Component by Class and set that as the variable. Why would this work any better
than how we were doing it before? Because before we were relying on
setting that Aiming Component Reference in the tank. Now I know we hadn't written any code to
do that, so it's bound not be to set, but there was no sensible place we could write that code,
where we could be sure it would be set at the right time. This way is happening in BeginPlay().
It should work o.k., let's try! The symptom will be that the reticle will be amber
now. Great! So the reticle is taking the default value from the Enum.
If we're not sure or we don't believe that, we could double-check it by
saying, OK what's the locked state? You could go to the C++, for example,
of the TankAimingComponent you could set it's default, you could initialize it to Locked.
Recompiling which is a bit of a pain. In a bigger project you would
simply expose that as a blueprint variable and change it or something
but... Oh sorry, as Blueprint Editable and change it, but this is going to be
fine. I just want to see that the reticle is green now and hence is reading from the Enum.
It is! Fantastic! Alright, so that is good news! We now know the
order everything is working in, and we have that Enum actually reading
through. So what we want to do to tidy this up, of course, is
to move this code that we've put in here into
the C++, because we don't want to see these sort of
things in our blueprint, and also, it'd be good to make this event based. What I'd like to
be saying is, actually only create this Blueprint Widget if
we found a Tank Aiming Component. So the way we're going to do
that is with a Blueprint implementable event,
which is going to allow us to have an event like BeginPlay(), that we've created ourself,
on the TankPlayerController, which will also have a parameter. And that parameter will get this
event arrow, and the parameter will be the AimingComponent. And then, we can
only do any of this creation of the blueprint, not on BeginPlay(),
but when that happens, so it's all event driven. So the TankPlayer
Controller goes OK, I've found the AimingComponent that I need, I'm going to fire off an event, and
then, the blueprint is going to say, OK let's make the UI, which is pretty cool!
So let's see how to do that in the next video!